trt-240: starter troubleshooting doc (#253)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/release-oversight/troubleshooting-payload-failures.md

- PromCIeus - Metrics from the cluster during the test run loaded in Prometheus.

- CI Search - https://search.ci.openshift.org/ - If you have found a particular log entry and want to search bugs and other junit runs to find:
    - How frequently does it occur
    - Did it start or spike recently
    - Is there an open bug against it <br><br>

- Sippy - https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/ Used to evaluate recent trends for aggregated jobs and individual tests.  You can filter by Release, Job, or Test as well as variants like platform, network, etc.  If you have found a job or test and want to dig deeper to determine how often does it fail, does it fail more ofter for particular variants, has it recently degraded.

- Data Studio - https://datastudio.google.com/navigation/reporting The big hammer with big data.  This is our data warehouse.  Like Sippy but at a larger scale we can search, query and dissect job and test results.

- Test Grid - https://testgrid.k8s.io/ (Search for a dashboard/tab: redhat-openshift ...) 

### Artifacts
The prow job will have a link to the artifacts collected during the run.  Some of the highlights contained in the artifacts are

> - The main build.log.txt in the root of the folder

Reviewer: s/build.log.txt/build-log.txt/

Reviewer: For every step (I think every step -- but surely for all the ones I've seen) from the step-registry, that is performed on a job, there will be a a build-log.txt file showing what was done.

> - Gather-must-gather 

Reviewer: add a link to this https://github.com/openshift/must-gather which is how that data is gathered.

    - Includes event-filter.html which can be used to search for events that occurred during the run
    - Includes must-gather.tar that can be downloaded, untarred and searched / viewed locally
- Gather-extra
    - Includes nodes containing the kubelet journal logs that can be downloaded and untarred for searching and viewing locally
    - events.json a collection of all of the events collected during the run
- Gather-network
    - Includes network.tar that can be downloaded, untarred and 

### Troubleshooting steps
- Look for the obvious, did the job fail?  Is there a failure message that can be connected to a recent commit or service?
- If there are multiple job failures look to see if the same blocking job is failing in each, or identify the one that is most frequently failing
    - Investigate those aggregated jobs that fail most frequently
    - Look at the individual runs for the aggregated jobs and identify the most commonly occurring failures
- If you can't identify a particular test to focus on based on frequency you either have to rely on your gut or ask for help
- When you narrow in on an individual test:

>     - Consult the repo and see if any recent commits are obvious candidates to impact it

Reviewer: For a nightly payload, the list of changes since the previous nightly payload can be obtained from these two places:

* the bottom of the page for that payload (e.g., [a recent 4.11 nightly payload](https://amd64.ocp.releases.ci.openshift.org/releasetag/4.11.0-0.nightly-2022-05-18-053037))
* the "PULL REQUESTS" tab on a payload acceptance page

>     - Review the test to try to get a better understanding of the tests expectations

Reviewer: tests are usually found in the openshift/origin repo by searching for the test name or a substring of the test name.

---

### Problem Statement
There is a lot of data collected during payload testing and multiple tools to assist in analyzing that data.
We can't expect 'always passing' tests in an eventually consistent distributed environment so what we look for
is a change in the signals generated over multiple (aggregated) runs.  When we see a failure we want to check to
see if the cause is identifiable.  If it isn't clear then we need to review the trends for the failure and then
take a deeper dive into the data collected. However, the data is not complete and some tools are better at capturing & analyzing particular types or subsets of data than others.
Additionally, with the number of jobs, job failures and individual tests it can be hard to determine how / where to start.
There is no step by step guide but we hope to document the benefits of the tools we have available and approaches to help investigate payload failures.

### Description of Tools and Usages
Typically when analyzing individual prow runs there are currently 
3 tools listed at the top of the job as well as additional
tools to check for larger trends related to tests, errors and events.

> - Loki - Grafana logging stack allowing you search logs and narrow time ranges.  This contains intermittent pod log entries that are not present in the must-gather or gather-extra artifacts.  As well as the kubelet journal logs found under gather-extra and others to aid in searching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Loki - Grafana logging stack allowing you search logs and narrow time ranges.  This contains ephemeral pod logs that are not present in the must-gather or gather-extra artifacts collected at the end of the CI run,  as well as the kubelet journal logs found under gather-extra and others to aid in searching.
```

> - KaaS - Representation of the last known state of the cluster.  Can be useful for navigating the cluster via OC or K9S and interrogating namespaces, logs, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- KaaS - Representation of the last known state of the cluster.  Can be useful for navigating the cluster via `oc` or `k9s` and interrogating namespaces, logs, etc.
```

- PromCIeus - Metrics from the cluster during the test run loaded in Prometheus.

- [CI Search](https://search.ci.openshift.org/) - If you have found a particular log entry and want to search bugs and other junit runs to find:
    - How frequently does it occur
    - Did it start or spike recently
    - Is there an open bug against it <br><br>

> - [Sippy](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/) - Used to evaluate recent trends for aggregated jobs and individual tests.  You can filter by Release, Job, or Test as well as variants like platform, network, etc.  If you have found a job or test and want to dig deeper to determine how often does it fail, does it fail more ofter for particular variants, has it recently degraded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Sippy](https://sippy.dptools.openshift.org/sippy-ng/) - One of our primary tools for locating top failing jobs and tests, determining how often they are failing, on which variants, and when the problems started. You can filter by Release, Job, or Test as well as variants like platform, network, etc. Also stores historical data for the contents and status of each nightly and CI payload similar to the [release controller](https://amd64.ocp.releases.ci.openshift.org/), which clears older data after 10 or so payloads.
```

> - [Big Query](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=openshift-ci-data-analysis) - The big hammer with big data.  This is our data warehouse.  Like Sippy but at a larger scale we can search, query and dissect job and test results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Big Query](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=openshift-ci-data-analysis) - The big hammer with big data.  This is our data warehouse.  Has some significant overlap with data in Sippy but a longer timeline, and also included data on disruption and alerting intervals for CI job runs. Does not scrape all prow jobs, but a fairly large number. (hardcoded list)
```

> - [Data Studio](https://datastudio.google.com/navigation/reporting) - Provides some prepared reports to review trends and dissect by variants 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Data Studio](https://datastudio.google.com/navigation/reporting) - Provides some prepared reports to review trends and dissect by variants using the data in BigQuery, including disruption charts.
```

> - [Test Grid](https://testgrid.k8s.io/redhat) - redhat-openshift-ocp-release-4.11-blocking, etc.  Summary of recent jobs with alerts and the ability to dig into jobs to look for most frequent failures 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Test Grid](https://testgrid.k8s.io/redhat) - redhat-openshift-ocp-release-4.11-blocking, etc.  Summary of recent jobs with alerts and the ability to dig into jobs to look for most frequent failures. Sippy includes links to the relevant testgrid job pages in a number of prominent places.
```
